---
kip: 99
title: KWENTA buyback and POL
status: Rejected
created: 2023-09-25
section:
---

## Simple Summary

Return value generated by the Kwenta protocol to KWENTA holders by creating POL on chain and commit to adding to it incrementally using profits generated from the protocol.
 
## Abstract

Once Kwenta has reached a point where it is generating revenues above its operating costs the DAO should allocate profits to a buyback program that also creates Protocol owned liquidity. This should function in a similar fashion to the Smart Burn system that is currently implemented by MakerDAO.
 
## Motivation

The KWENTA token currently has two very apparent issues. The first is that the success of the protocol is not aligned with the value of the token and the second is the lack of on chain liquidity for the token. This KIP aims to solve both of those by creating a steady stream of buy pressure while also building towards deep on chain liquidity.
 
## Specification
The DAO will create and/or use an existing KWENTA/StableCoin Uniswap v2 style pool that has an infinite range and is owned by the DAO. and supply it with KWENTA and StableCoins owned by the DAO. When the DAO has a surplus of revenue that exceeds the costs of running the DAO this surplus should be used to buy KWENTA from the protocol owned pool and then add what we have bought and an equal dollar value of the stablecoin it is paired with to the liquidity pool.
 
This should be done incrementally to avoid slippage and/or frontrunning. The exact cadence of the buybacks can be determined when there is a clearer picture of how much surplus revenue the DAO has to work with. This should be carried out until the protocol owns sufficient liquidity on chain and the council decides that there is a better use for any surplus revenues owned by the DAO.
