---
kip: 125
title: Core Contributor Grant Agreement
status: Draft
created: 2024-05-08
section: 2.11
snapshot:
sponsor:
---

## Simple Summary

Add a new document to the Kwenta State Log that describes the nature of the agreement between Core Contributors and the DAO.

## Abstract

This document will provide an overview of the high level agreement between CCs and the Kwenta DAO, including the purpose of the agreement, the grant amount, the conditions and intellectual property terms associated with the agreement.

## Motivation

It is useful to have a document to formalise the relationship between CCs and the DAO, and provide a piece of paper work that can be used by CCs to evidence the source of funds when receiving a DAO grant.

## Specification

We add the document as a section 8 to the Kwenta State Log. It will then follow the structure specified in the addendum.

## Addendum


# 8. Grant Agreement for Open Source Software Contribution

## Table of Content

1. [Parties](#parties)
2. [Purpose](#purpose)
3. [Grant Amount](#grant-amount)
4. [Payment Schedule](#payment-schedule)
5. [Milestone-Based Payments](#milestone-based-payments)
6. [Monthly Payments](#monthly-payments)
7. [Conditions for Disbursement](#conditions-for-disbursement)
8. [Reporting and Documentation](#reporting-and-documentation)
9. [Intellectual Property](#intellectual-property)
10. [Term and Termination](#term-and-termination)
11. [Acceptance](#acceptance)

## Parties
This Grant Agreement ("Agreement") is made between:
- **Grantor**: Kwenta, a Decentralized Autonomous Organization ("DAO").
- **Grantee**: [Name of Grantee or Developer], an independent contributor.

## Purpose
The purpose of this grant is to support the development and enhancement of open source software. This includes, but is not limited to, coding, documentation, design, and community engagement activities that are beneficial to Kwenta.

## Grant Amount

The total amount of the grant is [Amount] [Currency/Token] per month, and further milestone based payments which are paid at the discretion of the Kwenta DAO.

## Payment Schedule

### Milestone-Based Payments
- **Milestone 1**: [Description of Deliverable]
  - **Due Date**: [Date]
  - **Payment**: [Amount] [Currency/Token]
- **Milestone 2**: [Description of Deliverable]
  - **Due Date**: [Date]
  - **Payment**: [Amount] [Currency/Token]
- **Additional Milestones**: [Details as needed]

### Monthly Payments
- **Monthly Payment**: [Amount] [Currency/Token]
  - **Disbursement Date**: The last day of each month
  - **Duration**: [Total number of months or end date]

## Conditions for Disbursement

Funds will be disbursed either upon successful completion of milestones or on a regular monthly basis, as specified in the payment terms. For milestone-based payments proof of completion must be submitted in the form of documentation, GitHub pull requests and a live demo.

## Reporting and Documentation
Grantee agrees to provide weekly/monthly reports outlining progress, which should include:
- Detailed descriptions of the work completed.
- Links to relevant repositories, discussions, or documentation related to the work completed.
- Upcoming objectives and timelines.

## Intellectual Property
All contributions made by the Grantee under this Agreement will be licensed under MIT (or similar open source licensing such as GNU GPL v3), ensuring all developments remain open source.

## Term and Termination
This Agreement shall commence on [Start Date] and shall [continue until End Date]/[continue on a rolling basis] unless terminated earlier by either party with [number] days written notice. Upon termination, all unearned funds shall be returned to the DAO.

## Acceptance
By accepting this grant, the Grantee agrees to all terms and conditions outlined in this Agreement.

**[Name and Signature of DAO Representative]**

**[Name and Signature of Grantee]**
