---
kip: 87
title: Public Conditional Order Execution (SM v2.1.0)
status: Draft
created: 2023-07-06
section: 2
---

## Simple Summary
Extend Smart Margin (SM) account conditional order execution to the public (Smart Margin Account Upgrade v2.1.0).

## Abstract
This proposal suggests enabling public access to conditional order execution and encouraging participation through the implementation of a novel fee mechanism. Furthermore, the introduction of an executor-supplied price feed[^1] as an alternative method for conditional order execution will enhance the promptness of execution, thereby mitigating latency issues arising from the Gelato Network.

## Motivation
Limiting conditional order execution to a single service provider results in centralization and increases the risk of inadequate handling of conditional order execution, leading to a single point of failure. This approach also undermines the competitiveness and trustworthiness of our margin engine. While it may not be feasible to completely eliminate risks associated with on-chain smart contract automation, designing the system to incentivize non-gated conditional order execution can foster competition. This competition has the potential to significantly reduce latency and, in the worst-case scenario, result in a system that is similar to the existing one.

A proven approach, demonstrated in Synthetix's perps v2 system through off-chain delayed order execution[^2], involves accepting and verifying a signed Pyth-provided price update as a parameter. By triggering conditional order execution with a verified price update, any keeper monitoring off-chain prices can promptly execute eligible conditional orders upon observing a satisfactory price corresponding to the given conditional order.

## Specification
To enable public conditional order execution, it is necessary to eliminate the modifier that restricts calls to the `executeConditionalOrder` function from Gelato. Additionally, conditional order execution calls should be validated both with and without a price feed update. This allows Gelato to continue to execute conditional orders as it does today, while also enabling public conditional order execution.

When a price feed update is provided, it should be applied before validating the conditional order. If the price update is deemed valid and the required Pyth-imposed fee (in wei) is paid during the update process, Pyth will utilize the updated price in the SM account's verification of the conditional order's readiness for execution.

The code provided below demonstrates the process of determining the fee that an executor must pay to update the on-chain price and performing the price update:

```solidity
    // determine fee executor must pay to update on-chain price
    uint fee = pyth.getUpdateFee(priceUpdateData)
    assert(msg.value >= fee)

    // update the price data (and pay the fee)
    pyth.updatePriceFeeds.value(fee)(priceUpdateData);

    if (msg.value - fee > 0) {
        // refund caller. Try to return unused value, or revert if failed
        (bool success, ) = msg.sender.call{value: msg.value - fee}("");
        assert(success);
    }
```

The above (simplified) code assumes the following:
1. `priceUpdateData` is provided as a parameter
2. `pyth` is a contract supporting the `IPyth.sol` interface[^3]

To fully implement this proposal, an additional modification is required. This modification involves introducing a fee that is rewarded to the executor upon the successful execution of a conditional order. The fee will be calculated based on various factors, such as the conditional order's size, the Pyth-imposed fee, and potentially other considerations like gas usage. 

To ensure the safety of the SM account, the conditional order executing function should be non-reentrant. The fee will be paid to the executor only after the conditional order has been executed, and all other relevant logic has been completed.

Furthermore, in cases where a conditional order is executed by an external party (i.e., not Gelato), it becomes the responsibility of the executor to cancel the order (task) on Gelato. This can be achieved by invoking the internal function `Account._cancelConditionalOrder()`.

## References
[^1]: [Signed Price On-chain Price Verification](https://docs.pyth.network/documentation/benchmarks#on-chain-contracts)
[^2]: [Synthetix executeOffchainDelayedOrder](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix/blob/d596b1a101054d1d6ffd7920dad110aab669f8c7/contracts/PerpsV2MarketDelayedExecution.sol#L105)
[^3]: [EVM Based Pyth Interface](https://github.com/pyth-network/pyth-sdk-solidity/blob/main/IPyth.sol)