---
kip: 115
title: Reduce Staking Cooldown
status: Implemented
created: 2024-01-03
section: 
snapshot: https://vote.kwenta.eth.limo/#/proposal/0xab898a9c7a2e07baca24e71f57c6f14a21ec22e12a0e9330886481a8bdc55fed
---

## Simple Summary
This KIP proposes changing the staking cooldown period in Kwenta from 14 days to 7 days, enhancing liquidity and user flexibility.

## Abstract
The proposed adjustment will modify the staking cooldown mechanism within the Kwenta protocol. This change aims to provide a balance between maintaining secure governance and offering users greater agility in managing their staked assets.

## Motivation
The existing 14-day cooldown is a preventive measure against voting manipulation but is overly restrictive for users needing quick access to their assets in a volatile market. Reducing the cooldown to 7 days aligns with the need for both responsive liquidity and reliable governance.
    
## Specification
1. Upgrade `StakingRewardsV2` implementation so that the immutable `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD` variable is reduced from `1 weeks` to `0`.
2. Call the `StakingRewardsV2.setCooldownPeriod(uint256 _cooldownPeriod)` function with `7 day`.

## Technical Notes
Currently the cooldown period is adjustable via the `StakingRewardsV2.setCooldownPeriod` function. However it can only be set between the bounds of the `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD` and `MAX_COOLDOWN_PERIOD` defined in that contract. Currently those values are set at `1 week` and `52 weeks` respectively:
```
    uint256 public constant MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD = 1 weeks;
    uint256 public constant MAX_COOLDOWN_PERIOD = 52 weeks;
```
Due to the limitation of the `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD`, we can only reduce the cooldown period to a minimum of `1 week` via the `setCooldownPeriod` function with the current smart contract implementation. In order to reduce the cooldown period further, it requires a smart contract upgrade to change the value of `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD`. Thankfully this is an extremely trivial smart contract upgrade - about as simple as it gets.

## Parameter Change Summary
We would make the following two parameter changes:
- `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD` goes from `1 week` to `0`
- `cooldownPeriod` goes from `2 weeks` to `1 week`
The argument for `0` for `MIN_COOLDOWN_PERIOD` is that it provides the maximum amount of flexibility, and the value can be safely set to `0` as a way of totally turning the cooldown off if we ever want to. The reasoning behind `1 week` for the cooldown period is described above in the KIP Motivation section.
