---
kip: 100
title: Smart Margin v3
status: Draft
created: 2023-08-1
section: 4
snapshot:
---

## Simple Summary

Smart Margin v3 (SMv3) will serve as Kwenta's on-chain margin engine for trading derivatives powered by Synthetix v3. SMv3 will handle all trades created on the platform and serve as a single entry point for any on-chain integrators.

## Abstract

Kwenta's SMv3 system will be a unified gateway for all platform trading, prioritizing minimalism and immutability. SMv3's "Engine" will operate as a singleton contract that can manage user collateral, async order committing, user stats, and conditional order verification/execution. 

## Motivation

### Synthetix v3

SMv2 was designed to interact exclusively with Synthetix v2 based perp markets. Consequently, Kwenta's current margin engine solution cannot support the newly introduced Synthetix v3 perp markets. SMv3 represents the first step in Kwenta's transition to supporting Synthetix v3 perp markets from an on-chain perspective.

Furthermore, SMv3 initiates Kwenta's shift to a fully immutable and trustless margin engine design. While maintaining the flexibility found in SMv2, SMv3 strives to remove state complexity and emphasize trade execution and user experience. 

### Protocol Strength

#### Delegation

In SMv2, delegation was seldom used. However, SMv3 prioritizes it to support engine selectivity. This is managed through Synthetix v3's account module, which allows for permission-based delegation (3). This feature enables Kwenta to roll out new SM versions without requiring user migration. Users can choose their preferred trading engine and revoke permissions at will.

#### Protocol Architecture

Ultimately, SMv3 will unify user interactions through a single contract rather than using individual SM accounts for each user. This modification offers several benefits, including lower gas expenses, simplified complexity, and decreased risk linked to upgradeability, as SMv3 will be immutable (1).

## Specifications

### Overview

SMv3 System Overview:

https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/blob/main/diagrams/SMv3-Overview.png

#### Engine

The margin engine will interact with Synthetix v3 perp markets, guided by functions like `modifyCollateral` and `commitOrder` on the `Engine.sol` contract. With adequate interactions, the engine can completely manage users' Synthetix v3 perp market accounts (1). 

Multi-leg interactions within a single transaction are possible, similar to SMv2, thanks to its multicallable feature. However, authorization is needed for the engine to access these accounts, which is granted by setting account permissions. These permissions are adjustable at any time, offering account creators the flexibility to include or exclude engines (4).

Any state-changing interaction will require an account ID as a parameter, allowing the margin engine to authenticate the actor through the Synthetix v3 account module, except when depositing collateral (which can be done by any address) (4).


Here is an example of a function that reflects the above principles:

```
function modifyCollateral(
    uint128 _accountId,
    uint128 _synthMarketId,
    int256 _amount
) external override {
    IERC20 synth = IERC20(_getSynthAddress(_synthMarketId));
    if (_amount > 0) {
        _depositCollateral(
            msg.sender, synth, _accountId, _synthMarketId, _amount
        );
    } else {
        if (!isAccountOwner(_accountId, msg.sender)) revert Unauthorized();
        _withdrawCollateral(
            msg.sender, synth, _accountId, _synthMarketId, _amount
        );
    }
}
```

#### Stats

Trading volume and fees will be logged on-chain for future decentralized rewards distribution. Each account will have an associated `AccountStats` object to track specific metrics. This will be the engine's sole state, allowing each engine version to have unique stat-tracking capabilities. If more metrics are needed, adding them directly to the engine simplifies future updates, eliminating the need for a separate stats management contract.

#### Conditional Orders

https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/blob/main/diagrams/Conditional-Orders.png

In SMv3, Conditional Orders gain enhanced functionality due to a restructured defining object. With order submission moving off-chain, the object can be more intricate without inflating gas costs (2). 

Conditional Orders specify both order details (`IEngine.OrderDetails`) and on-chain verification criteria. This bundled data (`IEngine.ConditionalOrder`) is signed off-chain by the account owner and executed on-chain when conditions are met, either by a `trustedExecutor` or publicly if `requireVerified` is true.

Before execution, each order mandates basic on-chain verification for elements like `nonce`, `signer`, and `signature`. Additional conditions can be specified through `IEngine.ConditionalOrder.conditions`, a `bytes[]` array containing function selectors for external calls on the engine contract. Example conditions include `isTimestampAfter`, `isPriceAbove`, and `isMarketOpen`.

If `requireVerified` is set to true, all specified conditions must be verified on-chain, allowing any address to execute the order. Conversely, if set to false, only a `trustedExecutor` can execute, enabling platforms like Kwenta to manage and execute orders without incurring extra gas costs for condition verification.

## Sources

(1) [SMv3 System Overview](https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/wiki/What-is-Smart-Margin)
(2) [SMv3 Conditional Orders](https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/wiki/Conditional-Orders)
(3) [SMv3 Delegation Management](https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/wiki/Delegate-Management)
(4) [SMv3 Account Management](https://github.com/Kwenta/smart-margin-v3/wiki/Account-Management)