---
kip: 107
title: Update Decentralized Code Deployment Guidelines
status: Draft
created: 2023-10-26
section: 4.2
---

## Simple Summary

This KIP is aimed at introducing a six-month exclusivity period for newly developed features & products. The intent is to balance the open-source ethos with protecting investment in development resources and to provide a competitive edge in the rapidly evolving DeFi landscape.

## Abstract

This proposal suggests amending existing develpment guidelines to introduce a time-bound exclusivity period for up to six months post-development, during which the source code for new features will remain private. Post this period, the source code will be made publicly available under the existing open-source license terms (MIT).

## Motivation

The rapid evolution and competitiveness in the perps space require a balance between maintaining an open-source ethos and ensuring a return on the investment in development resources. By introducing a six-month exclusivity period, Kwenta can enjoy a temporary competitive advantage that can translate to better platform growth and user adoption.

* Return on Investment: Significant resources are expended in the development of new features. A temporary exclusivity period helps in ensuring a return on the investments made.

* Competitive Advantage: The exclusivity period provides a window for Kwenta to capitalize on the new features before competitors have the chance to replicate them.

* User Adoption and Platform Growth: Early access to innovative features can drive user adoption and growth, which in turn will benefit the Kwenta community in the long run.

## Specification

Implementing a time-bound exclusivity period strikes a pragmatic balance between open-source values and the competitive realities of the DeFi space. It allows Kwenta to protect its development investments, foster innovation, and maintain a competitive edge while adhering to the broader ethos of decentralization and community engagement.

### Exclusivity Period

* Duration: The exclusivity period will last for up to six months from the date of deployment of the new feature.

* Code Access: During this period, the source code for the new features will remain closed. Only approved Kwenta developers and contributors will have access to the code.

* Public Availability: Post the exclusivity period, the source code will be made publicly available under the existing open-source license terms.

### Exclusion Criteria

Certain critical bug fixes, security patches, or other essential updates may be excluded from the exclusivity period to ensure the ongoing stability and security of the platform.

