---
kip: 86
title: Staking V2 Integrator Contract Support
status: Implemented
created: 2023-07-04
snapshot: https://vote.kwenta.eth.limo/#/proposal/0x7f0c35a58ea5debd54913f22d536e7666aaa929feafe1c9ba7e3a737da0424a3
---

## Simple Summary

Staking V2 has been engineered so that the community will continue to receive rewards for their V1 locked escrow.

However in order for this intention to be fully fulfilled, Staking V2 also needs to support Staking V1 contract stakers (community members who staked their escrow via a smart contract).

This KIP ensures that individuals who staked in V1 via contract will also be rewarded in V2 for their locked V1 stake.

## Abstract

This change will add a new interface and functions that allow community members to claim V2 rewards for their V1 locked escrow.

This will allow integrators and any other community member who has staked via a contract to claim their V2 rewards in the same way EOA stakers can.

## Motivation

The decision was made when designing Staking V2 that we should do the best possible within engineering constraints to ensure that no users unfairly lose rewards due to the migration.

Hence Staking V2 was designed to provide rewards for funds locked in immutable V1 contracts that cannot be migrated.

The system is already engineered to support this for EOAs, but without this change, users who have staked via smart contract will miss out.

This KIP will ensure everyone in the community is treated equally.

## Specification

Add a new `IStakingRewardsV2Integrator` that requires integrators to use `beneficiary` function. This will return the address of the beneficiary of the smart contract.

The following functions will be added:
- `getIntegratorReward`
- `getIntegratorAndSenderReward`
- `getIntegratorRewardAndCompound`

These functions will allow the `beneficiary` account to claim rewards on behalf of the integrator, and to compound those rewards.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
