---
kip: 94
title: Partition of Protocol Owned Liquidity between Uniswap (30%) and Velodrome (70%)
status: Draft
created: <2023-08-21>
---


## Simple Summary
Kwenta will allocates POL between Velodrome and Uniswap pools (50% Uniswap & 50% Velodrome). 
- The Velodrome side (50% of the POL) is important to capture VELO emissions each week, grow Kwenta's Protocol Owned Vote power (veVELO), and strengthen the protocol's incentive programs. Building a veVELO position will significantly reduce Kwenta's reliance on liquidity incentives over time by giving the protocol control to direct VELO emissions in perpetuity while capturing voter rewards weekly. In addition, the release of Velodrome V2 allows liquidity pools to self-incentivize by capturing higher fees that attract veVELO votes.
- The Uniswap side (50% of the POL) will be used to create deep liquidity for the Kwenta/wETH exchange pair and those that are derived from it. Specifically Kwenta DAO reserves the right to use third party infrastructure & strategies that allow to create deep liquidity on Uniswap V3 (as is currently the case with Arrakis). 
In the meantime, the TC will reserve necessary time in order to study better solutions to Arrakis. 


## Abstract
This proposal aims to change the KWENTA/WETH Protocol Owned Liquidity (POL) in the following ways:
- Move (up to 50%) KWENTA’s Protocol Owned Liquidity (POL) from Arrakis to Velodrome.
- Use KWENTA’s veNFT to vote for the KWENTA/WETH pool.
- Compound the VELO emissions from the POL into the KWENTA veNFT, increasing the share of bribes it receives every week.
- Compound the WETH/KWENTA fees & bribes in the POL on Velodrome.
- Study better Arrakis competitor. (This is a mission statement for the TC)


## Motivation
Velodrome is an optimal platform for Kwenta to create a sustainable liquidity incentive program. Protocols can lock veVELO or deposit incentives to attract veVELO votes to direct VELO emissions to their liquidity pools. Protocols often direct 2-3X as much value in VELO as they deposit in incentives.
By deploying POL on Velodrome, Kwenta can capture a portion of the VELO emissions directed to the KWENTA/WETH pool. This leverages Kwenta's existing incentive program to return VELO rewards to the protocol and allow Kwenta to grow its veNFT position to continuously direct VELO emissions to KWENTA LPs, thus enhancing its ability to provide free liquidity incentives in the future.

Splitting the POL between the two protocols we will have a diversification of liquidity and Market Making methodology that would generally make the overall liquidity strategy more efficient, as well as diversifying POL management risk by protecting it from exploits & SC risk.



## Specification
Kwenta has been providing weekly voting incentives on Velodrome (~43 Kwenta). In the last epoch, Kwenta's pool received $27.5k in VELO emissions with only $11.3k in incentives, attracting $1.9 million in TVL with a 71% APR. With the release of Velodrome V2, liquidity pools are able to capture higher volume and fees, which are distributed to veVELO voters as incentives. In the last epoch, KWENTA/WETH supported around $1.3 million in volume, resulting in $4k in fees that will attract more votes and VELO emissions for the pool.
Moreover, Kwenta holds a veNFT with 2 million veVELO, which enabled the protocol to earn ~$3k in voting rewards in the last epoch. These rewards can be added as POL on Velodrome. Through POL, Kwenta can capture VELO emissions and lock as veVELO to grow its veNFT position. A larger veNFT would yield greater rewards while directing VELO emissions to Kwenta's liquidity pool. 
Based on the Arrakis dashboard (https://dune.com/arrakis_finance/palm-optimism?vault_t0e1b6=0xbc97c6d1df0b1edaf7fe9b7d4589790fe14ec9f9&vaultName_e37391=selection+by+address) the current deployed POL is ~$176k.  Splitting it according with the proposed 50/50 will mean: 
- ~$123k to Velodrome
- ~$53k to Uniswap(PALM).

With $123k in POL, Kwenta could earn ~$1.72 in VELO rewards weekly. Combined, veVELO votes and POL could earn over $6.15k in rewards per week for Kwenta.

The impact of higher veVELO voting power (and rewards), higher fees, and POL will significantly reduce Kwenta's cost of liquidity and potentially allow Kwenta to incentivize liquidity profitably. If, for example, fees can partially replace Kwenta's own voter incentives, the protocol could focus on growing its veNFT and POL positions to capture a greater share of voter rewards and VELO emissions over time.
By going instead to provide liquidity to Uniswap side using third-party infrastructure and strategies Kwenta is able to create deep liquidity for the Kwenta/wETH pair. 

The use of an abstract layer on top of concentrated liquidity AMMs (such as Uniswap V3) allows for Central Limit Order Book (CLOB)like interactions with liquidity that is managed in an automated, capital-efficient, noncustodial, and transparent manner based on a pool (Uniswap) that is fully decentralized. This should lead to a lower slippage and less influence for price movements. 



### Risks Mitigation
This proposal also addresses the risks associated with Automated Concentrated Liquidity solutions (which is why this KIP suggests 50% Uniswap & 50% Velodrome), which can exacerbate volatility if liquidity chases price. The current KWENTA/WETH pool on UniV3 has encountered issues, as PALM has effectively built a large sell wall for KWENTA by adding outsized liquidity right above Kwenta's current active price range, suppressing any upward price action. The UniV3 pool appears to have under 7 WETH left for liquidity. If PALM were to attempt to rebalance its position close to 50:50, it would have to sell a large supply of KWENTA into a thin LP, severely impacting price.

As a result, it would be extremely difficult for PALM to fill Kwenta’s liquidity needs on a Uniswap v3 Pool.
Shifting focus to Velodrome will allow Kwenta to maximize incentives and enhance the sustainability of its liquidity program. 

At the same time, having liquidity on Uniswap allows Kwenta to diversify, even if slightly, the POL allocation against exploits and SC risk. This allows the token to remain liquid in case of problems in Velodrome. The choice is based solely on risk diversification since, at the time of writing this KIP, the current slippages on a $10k exchange are: ~2.51% on Velodrome and ~1.95% on Uniswap (PALM) (thus not per fareway).
Since the slippage for 10k is not too far off, and on velodrome it will remain almost constant while reducing slightly, diversification of our POLs (once a portion is removed from Arrakis) is necessary and only makes sense in terms of risk. Specifically, the slippage for Uniswap after moving 70% of POL, on a $10k exchange will be ~4.63%. 



